At this point, our little test application has exactly one publisher and one listener inside of it.
Now, let's imagine that we eventually deploy this test application into our Kubernetes cluster, and
maybe we use it for a real application.
At some point in time, we might realize that the order service is getting a lot of traffic, and so
we might decide to scale up the order service in some way.
We can either scale the order service vertically by giving the order service some more powerful CPU,
more RAM and so on.
Or alternatively, we could try to scale it horizontally by just creating a second instance of the order
service.
So we might have two copies of the exact same service, and in all regards they're identical in nature.
Now, of course, we would want to make sure that both these services would be able to connect to our
NAT streaming server.
Let's try opening up our terminal once again inside the terminal.
Let's create a second window or I guess a third window in this case, and try running another copy of
the order service and just see what happens.
All right, so back inside my terminal.
If you are running, I turn to.
You can select a window that's running the listener and then do a command shift.
DX That will open up another terminal window down there.
If you are not using, I turn to go ahead and just create a third terminal window and change into the
next test directory.
Then inside there we will start up a second listener by running and PM run.
Listen.
And as soon as I run that I'm going to end up getting an error message that says client ID already registered.
So what's going on here?
Well, as usual, let's take a quick look at a diagram.
All right.
So whenever we connect to our net streaming server, the server maintains a list of different clients
that is connected to.
So the first thing we had connect to our streaming server was the publisher.
When we created the publisher back inside of our publisher file.
So here's publisher Tess.
We called Nats Connect.
And the second argument to it was something called a client ID.
In this case, we specified a client ID of simply a, b, c.
So when we successfully connected the streaming server created a new client on the list of clients that
were connected to it, and it said, Okay, I've got some client with a ID of ABC and I can connect
to that client by reaching out to this publisher thing over here.
Then a little bit later on inside of our listener file.
We created a second client.
Here it is right here.
And in this case, we gave it a client ID of 1 to 3.
So once again, we had the order service reach out, connect, and then that streaming server added
to its list of clients, this brand new client.
And it said, okay, you have an ID of one, two, three.
So now as we just tried to create a third or I should say really a second copy the listener or a third
client overall, we ran a second copy of the Order Service, and so it tried to connect to the Napster
server with these same client ID of 1 to 3.
Napster server never wants to see a duplicate client ID, and that's exactly what we just did.
We tried to connect with the same client ID, and so that's why we saw the error message.
It said, sorry, but someone has already connected to the server with the client ID of one, two,
three.
So if we want to run multiple copies of a listener, publisher or whatever, any time we want to run
multiple clients, we need to make sure that all these different clients have a different client ID.
In the world of Kubernetes, there's going to be a very easy way for us to deal with that.
But for right now, in this test environment, we're just going to say that we're going to randomly
generate an ID.
So rather than having a hard coded 1 to 3 right here, we will instead randomly generate a string and
then provide it as the second argument to the connect call.
So let's give that a shot right now.
Do you randomly generate a string at the very top of the file?
I'm going to import random bytes from.
Crypto.
You might recall using this function a little bit earlier in the course when we were doing that password
salting.
So random bytes essentially just allows us to create a random string full of numbers and letters.
Then I'll find the 1 to 3 right there.
I'm going to delete it and replace it with random bytes or.
She was stirring ex like so.
If I now save this and flip back over to my terminal, it looks like both copies are now able to connect
because they both have random client IDs.
Okay.
That's definitely a good improvement.
So we now know how to run multiple copies or multiple clients, each of them with a randomly generated
ID.
Now we're not quite done with this whole idea of having some multiple clients or multiple listeners.
So quick pause right here.
We're going to take a look at what happened when we really added in this second listener.